hey there and welcome to another Travis
cafard vlog this time I am talking about
the riot viewership numbers that are
coming out for 2017 so first off I
apologize I can't spend too much time
going into all this stuff because you
know I I just got it somewhat recently
and about to go out to get in there with
my father so we're gonna go through them
really quickly and I'm just gonna
highlight a couple of things because the
info graph that is out which I will link
in the description and for some reason
it's too tall for me to be able to edit
easily into this video has a lot of data
on it and maybe some of it is
interesting to you guys like how many
how sneaky had the highest damage per
minute at some point in time during
worlds you know during worlds but
actually I just want to focus on the
viewership numbers which I find to be
most interesting because they really
seize every year so the big ones that
everybody really cares about our world
championships had 1.2 billion hours
viewed over the whole course of Worlds
the peak viewership accordant a game
according to riot was 80 million but
unusually you know this always occurs
during finals this time I'm actually
occurring semi finals during SKT and rng
we can talk about why that is in a
second and then Thoth and then
interestingly 50 7.6 million people
tuned in for finals you might notice
that there were more people at peak
during semifinals than there were for
all the finals which is interesting
indeed so because we only have the
highest levels of production here at the
Travis Cafferty sports studio I wanted
to show you guys a brilliant little
document that I made to compare this
right because this is just a notepad
because if you are thinking about the
numbers that they show you in the info
graph you're probably really curious how
they compare to last year and here we
see that there's actually some very
interesting stuff that has happened so
first off let's talk about msi cuz msi
was revealed in this infographic i
forget if they revealed it in 2017 or
not so far but it mostly 2016 peak 6
million average two point
million unique daily impressions 202
million and this is where you will start
to see some of the nursing stuff right
is seemingly releasing kind of at their
own whim different numbers right because
whenever you are comparing any kind of
information you kind of want to compare
across years and it's useful to have the
same metrics involved but if you look at
MSI we don't have in 2017 the peak
viewership for what MSI 2017 was and we
also don't have the average impressions
it effects the only thing we have our
total unique viewers which is 364 so you
can see that those are up by significant
amount from last year 202 to 364 there's
a crazy jump by the way anybody that is
producing things year-over-year would be
super happy to see that kind of
viewership job but it is really strange
by the way that we don't see the peak
viewership or the average daily of your
I think is average across the whole
event right
on average normally 2.3 million more
people people who are watching in 2016
and uni given time during I'm saying
2016 they don't have that in 2017 so
it's just odd that they don't show that
and so maybe you think like okay well
now all they want to go through is
possibly you know these total unique
viewers but then later on they show RIF
rivals numbers and they show peak
concurrence and daily unique impressions
here but not here so I don't I don't
really understand why that was why that
was done you know like we see totally
unique viewers here but we don't see
daily here but then like those numbers
come back here for rift rival so it just
seems oddly selective and I don't really
understand the reasoning in doing
approaching it that way but the story
there is mo size up by that one metric
and significantly up by the way it's
worth worth paying attention to
so the world's numbers are super
fascinating this year because they have
seemingly been supercharged by China
right so if you remember last year
world's was in the US and you know not
at optimal times for the Asian time
zones this time the world's was in China
which allows it to be pretty much within
all the Asia time zone which I I don't
know if any numbers have ever been
released but it's pretty obvious by the
way that Asia is where the majority of
the playerbase is and so if you're
airing content at primetime hours for
that audience guess what happens I
already told you the numbers for this
year but let's kind of compare these so
total viewed hours went from 370 million
to 1.2 billion it's worth mentioning by
the way that there is like world's is
longer this year because they added the
playing stage but you could kind of
assume that the playing stage which was
the least popular a part of Worlds
did not account for basically the
numbers going bonkers right like the 370
million to 1.2 billion that is a crazy
job once again we see a really weird
thing that happens where in 2016 we saw
total cumulative daily unique
impressions which is basically what that
is is they are taking the the unique
viewers from everyday and adding them up
to give you a mega number from the end
of the event and here we saw that it was
396 million that is not shown this year
but you can kind of assume or you can
start to guess that like it would it
should be up right because there's more
days of worlds and viewership is way up
on total view to hours and then what's
interesting is okay last year I kind of
mentioned this before peak finals
viewership was 14 point 7 million and so
that was like the highest presumably the
highest point of Worlds you had 14 point
7 million people watching it I mean all
at once this year that didn't happen
during finals that happened during
semifinals because it was the RNG vs.
SKT game
and guess what is interesting about our
energy verse SKT they are from two
different places in both wildly popular
teams so you have a lot of Chinese fans
coming in and watching in their prime
time to see you know their team has made
it to the semi-finals face off against
SKT the most popular team ever sorry I
shouldn't say maybe the most popular
poutine but the the team with the most
legacy that obviously had all these
back-to-back wins and so what that
allows you to go to is go from the 14
point 7 million people watching all at
once and finals to 80 million people
watching it all at once
during semifinals fascinatingly though
you had 80 million people watching all
at once in semifinals but if the
infographic I'm interpreting at the
correct way the use like peak viewership
for finals or sorry peak viewership for
semifinals was over the amount of people
that come like entirely tuned in to
finals right and finals you only had 57
I say only but 57 point 6 million people
tuned in over the whole event which is
less than the the peak amount the the
highest number you saw during all of
semi finals so that's that's a
fascinating number by the way and worth
noting that we saw finals unique viewers
go from 43 million to 57 point 6 million
so more people a significant amount more
tuned into finals this year so the big
thing to pay attention to as I'm
clicking back and forth between Notepad
and me is that we ha we saw a huge jump
in total viewed ours right from here to
here I from 370 million such 1.2 billion
again insane number and I think that
really is just about China watching some
more questions kind of about why riot is
not it's not showing all the same
numbers across all the different events
and why these different metrics here and
they're probably just picking
cherry-picking the stuff that makes them
look the best I don't know but that's
kind of what we're seeing there and then
I think
also one thing to notice that the crazy
numbers that we saw I am very interested
to see how right handles this next year
because I feel like there's a good
chance that because world's is not in
China next year presumably I mean wait
it be surprising let's say if they put
it back to back in China that we will
see some numbers dip and we'll
definitely see them dip
if the viewership or sorry the viewing
hours are not as accessible to the asian
population of the Asian audience right
because I think this is what we're
seeing is you you go from North America
you have these types of views and you go
to Asia they go way up right and and
maybe an indication that League is still
on the up-and-up across the world
because maybe have more people watching
and you have more people playing
potentially but definitely you saw more
people watch worlds this year so very
interesting stuff would love to sort of
talk to riot more about these numbers
and what happened there and they were
able to give me this infographic ahead
of time and I'm gonna release this video
basically when I'm allowed to when the
infographic goes live what often happens
is I propose questions and this type of
thing and they'll answer it in a blog
post I didn't know they were posting so
we'll see what happens with this video
goes live maybe they have answered some
of these questions already but I just
wanted to share these numbers with you
and kind of share my thoughts on them
really quickly on my channel anyway
thank you so much for watching if you
enjoy my content feel free to subscribe
please do that actually really helps me
out a decent amount not just in getting
people to come back but also what it
right here you know what this is
actually quite difficult yes right here
there's a support page for me with a
patreon information and other cool
things so if you want to help support me
you can do so there because lord knows
you're all running adblock anyway thanks
for watching
have a good one and goodbye